This is one of multiple videos demonstrating how to troubleshoot issues in preparation for the CCMA
exam.
In this example we've been told that P.S. One is not able to ping P.S. to so let's verify that can P.S.
1 ping.
P.S. to notice the U and the Dutch telling us that it's unreachable you means that the traffic is being
sent to a router and the router doesn't know where to forward the traffic.
Let's have a look at the writing table on this router acting as our P.S. notice in the output we have
a default gateway configured so can the PCI paying the default gateway.
Yes it can.
So P.S. one is able to ping rather one in this topology I'm using Cisco.
IOW v routers in genius 3.
So rather than trying to set up a physical P.C. I'm simply using Cisco Iowa's v images to act as our
pieces.
So on a one let's have a look.
Show IP front no rights are being lent to a writing protocol.
We only see local and connected ruts on the road to show IP protocols.
OSP has been enabled as a writing protocol on Route 1 one a routing protocol would be required to allow
rider 1 to write traffic to this remote network so Rider 2 would have to inform rider 1 about that network
using a routing protocol of some description.
And in this example it's always P.F. on route to show IP protocols or SPF is enabled on this rather
show ip route.
It's not learning any rules however from road one either.
So looking at this output are you able to see the problem.
This output should allow you to see where the problem is in this network.
So have you spotted the issue.
Rado 1 has this photo I.D. route to has this roto I.D. the Rada I.D. All the same on both riders in
0 SPF Rada I.D. have to be unique.
So show run pipe section who is P.F. in the output we can see that the Rondo I.D. has been configured
to one dot wondered wondered one show run pipe section of SPF.
The same thing is being configured on route a to so en route to
let's configure the rota ideas quadruple to notice we not getting any output when we make changes.
And that's because I disabled logging to the console.
So let me enable logging and enable logging.
This site
lets see if we get any output.
So show IPO SPF neighbor or the neighbor relationship has been established on the site show IP SPF.
Neighbor neighbor relationship has been established.
So what I'll do just to show you the problem is I'll set it back to RADA idea of 1 and notice we're
told that we need to clear the SPF process so clear IP SPF 1 process
notice the neighbor relationship has gone down and notice me being told that there's a duplicate Rada
I.D. and we see that on both sides.
So I purposely disabled logging to the console so that you wouldn't see that so before I fix it.
This is what the configuration looks like at the moment.
Rada I.D. is set to wandered wandered wandered 1.
So what we should do is change that to quadruple to
in this case we didn't have to reset to the process because the neighbour relationship hadn't been established
yet.
Notice now the relationship has gone full.
So we changed the configuration from this to this.
Only difference is Rada is being changed.
Show IP SPF.
NEIGHBOUR.
NEIGHBOUR relationship is established on the side neighbour relationship has been established.
If you see outputs like this it makes it easy to find where the problem is.
You may not have it that easy in the exam as an example.
You may have to discover where the problem is.
Like I've done here Sir Ken P.S. one ping.
P.S. 2 Yes it can let's trace T.
P.S. to notice that trace succeeds.
So we've successfully fixed the issue in this network.
I hope you've enjoyed this video.
Please add comments below and let me know if he found this helpful.
Don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel for more videos.